Electromyogram (EMG) signal-based gait phase recognition for walking-assist devices warrants much attention in human-centered system design as it well exemplifies human-in-the-loop control where the system's prediction directly affects subsequent walking motion. Since walking motion poses considerable variations in electrode placement;  performance reliability of such systems is contingent on a combination of electrode montage and a feature extraction method that takes into account underlying physiological factors of peripheral muscles where electrodes are placed. In many practical applications;  however;  proper consideration of effects of the electrode location variation on performance reliability of the system has received scant empirical attention. Here;  based on a user-centered design principle;  we establish a gait phase recognition system that is capable of rigidly controlling ill effects due to this covariate by carrying out a large-scale analysis that combines statistical;  model-based;  and empirical approaches. In doing so;  we have developed a special sensing suit for the control of electrode placement and a reliable data acquisition. We then have conducted a nonparametric statistical analysis on class separability values of thirty types of EMG feature sets;  followed by a model-based analysis to address the tradeoff between class separability and dimensionality. To further address the issue of how these results generalize to independent systems and data sets;  we have carried out an empirical performance assessment over six classification methods. First;  the two feature types;  Integral of Absolute Value and Histogram;  and a combination of the two are shown to be robust against electrode location variations while providing a firm performance guarantee. Second;  system organization scenarios are presented on a case-by-case basis;  allowing us to trade off system complexity for on-line adaptation capability. Collectively;  our integrated analysis lends itself to formulating a guideline for design of highly reliable EMG signal-based walking assistant systems in a variety of smart home scenarios. 