The whole production line of hematite ore processing is composed of raw ore processing;  shaft furnace roasting;  grindings;  and magnetic separation production phases. Their automation systems consist of the process control part and the operational optimization system. The target of the optimal operational control is to optimize the concerned operational indices;  namely;  the intermediate product quality;  efficiency;  and consumptions. The dynamics between the operational indices and the global production indices (i.e.;  the total concentration grade;  metal recovery rate;  production rate;  beneficiation ratio;  and costs) with month;  day;  and hour time scales changes in line with the variations of production conditions;  composition of raw ore together with capability of equipment. These indices are difficult to measure online and as a result it is difficult to model accurately. Moreover;  there are characteristics in terms of both interconnections and conflictions among these indices. This leads to isolated operation of individual automation systems for these processes and the optimization of global production indices for whole production line cannot be realized. This paper presents a novel problem description for the integrated optimization of the automation systems of mineral processing. For this purpose;  the analysis is made on the difficulty of using the existing optimization methods-based decision making methods to obtain the integrated optimization of the automation systems. The integrated optimization strategy for the automation systems of mineral processes is proposed using our previously established target value optimization of global production indices ;  two time scales decomposition approach and target value optimization of operational indices. The proposed strategy aims at realizing the optimization of global production indices. Using real data from a mineral processing plant on hematite beneficiation process;  relevant simulations;  and real industrial experiments have been carried out. The obtained experimental results show the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed strategy. 