Our survey of the equipment manufacturing industry in China indicates that;  for complex products like synthetic transmission devices;  intercell transfers occur in the processing routes of more than 51% of parts. More than 47% of tardy parts are caused by inefficient intercell cooperation. Therefore;  intercell transfers are inevitable and it is worth an effort to find out an effective approach to intercell scheduling. To solve intercell scheduling problems;  two characteristics in industrial environments of complex products cannot be neglected. The first one is the large problem sizes;  which involve up to hundreds of parts and thousands of operations; and the second one is the importance of transportation to intercell scheduling;  which involves allocation and utilization of vehicles. However;  sufficient transportation capacity is taken as a common assumption in most of research with respect to intercell scheduling;  which shields the transportation dimension and hinders the application of these intercell scheduling approaches. Therefore;  intercell scheduling with limited transportation capacity is considered;  and a hybrid evolutionary hyper-heuristic is proposed in this paper. The advantages of this approach lie in that;  (i) as a hyper-heuristic;  it provides high computational efficiency;  which is suitable for industrial environments with large problem sizes; and (ii) genetic programming is employed to generate problem-specific heuristic rules;  which enhances the learning and searching ability of the approach. We compare the proposed approach with the man-made heuristic rules that are widely used in practice. Experimental results indicate that;  for hundreds of parts and thousands of operations;  given the same running time;  our approach outperforms man-made rules with an average gap of 60.6% in minimizing total weighted tardiness. Therefore;  our approach is advantageous in both computational efficiency and solution quality;  and is especially suitable for the intercell scheduling problems in practice. 
