This work is motivated by the continuingdeluge of constrained, wirelessly connected sensing and controldevices. Networks of communicable sensors and actuators arefinding increased applicability across a range of industries andapplication scenarios. They are often thought of as a subset ofthe ‘”nternet of Things.” However, due to the inherent difficultyin building theses systems technically and in terms of balancingthe tradeoffs between (economic) cost and performance (e.g.,energy, latency, reliability, and determinism), uptake has beenslow. The community is relatively small and therefore has notovercome all of the problems that present themselves consideringrequired functionality of industrial applications. There is a needto find new ways to interact with these devices, particularly thosewith heterogeneous attributes. There is also clear motivation toprogress from traditional system architectures, whereby all datasensed are transmitted to centralized storage and managementplatform, to decentralized means of interrogation and control.This work proposes a solution to this problem, describing andevaluating a novel framework to query constrained networkeddevices based on two key improvements over the current art. The first is construction and management of a dynamic routing mechanism that facilitates the second, which is a method to store staticattributes in a distributed manner, which can be queried by auser—man or machine—in a decentralized way. In combination,they are presented as a “platform,” essentially a middleware, implementable in embedded firmware that sits between the lower(i.e., physical and medium access control) and upper (i.e., application) layers of the stack. The algorithms are presented in full,and extensively evaluated with respect to existing approaches.It is shown that the proposed platform significantly outperformsthe existing art considering efficiency (latency and energy), maintaining modest implementation overheads in computation andmemory. Ongoing and future work concerns extending this capability to continuous operation, considered essential for distributedcontrol and autonomous systems applications.
