The majority of current social robot applications either consider users being collocated with the robot in the same region or users being static within another region in the environment. However, several applications exist where users are dynamic within their environments and for which a robot needs to find them in order to provide assistance, for example, in office buildings, airports, museums, hospitals, and long-term care facilities. In general, these users are performing activities within these regions. We uniquely consider such activity information in order to model user location probabilities. We developed a robot search planner that uses these probabilities to find users of interest in multi-room environments. The planner is novel as it reasons about when and which regions to search and for how long, as well as if the same region needs to be searched multiple times as users can perform multiple activities during the search time frame in the same region or revisit a region to perform a new activity. We have integrated the search planner within a robot system architecture. The robot travels to each region and then uses a local planner to navigate to locations within the region. At each location, a person identification technique is used to identify the target users in order to engage in human–robot interactions. Experiments were performed for two search applications: 1) a simulated Blueberry robot finding multiple residents in a virtual representation of one of our collaborating long-term care facilities and 2) the physical Blueberry robot finding multiple staff/students on a physical floor of a university building. For both experiments, plans were generated on the robot’s onboard Lenovo Thinkpad X230 using the robot operating system (ROS) in Ubuntu. User activity data and maps used for the experiments in the care facility can be found on our website (http://asblab.mie.utoronto.ca/research-areas/personsearch-human-centered-environments), under multi-user robot search. The physical Blueberry robot was also equipped with an ASUS Xtion IR depth camera, a Logitech pro c920 RGB camera, and a Hokuyo laser range finder for person identification and navigation in the environment. The results showed that our system was effective in finding multiple dynamic users under varying environment sizes and search durations. Our search planner also outperformed other planners and was robust to uncertainties in the user model. Future work will consider environments with multiple floors and crowded regions, planners that directly reason about environment dynamics, and local planners that reason about user location probabilities within regions.
