Improving the efficiency and sustainability of distribution networks (DNs) is nowadays a challenging objective both for large networks and microgrids connected to the main grid. In this context;  a crucial role is played by the so-called network reconfiguration problem;  which aims at determining the optimal DN topology. This process is enabled by properly changing the close/open status of all available branch switches to form an admissible graph connecting network buses. The reconfiguration problem is typically modeled as an NP-hard combinatorial problem with a complex search space due to current and voltage constraints. Even though several metaheuristic algorithms have been used to obtain—without guarantees—the global optimal solution;  searching for near-optimal solutions in reasonable time is still a research challenge for the DN reconfiguration problem. Facing this issue;  this article proposes a novel effective optimization framework for the reconfiguration problem of modern DNs. The objective of reconfiguration is minimizing the overall power losses while ensuring an enhanced DN voltage profile. A multiple-step resolution procedure is then presented;  where the recent Harris hawks optimization (HHO) algorithm constitutes the core part. This optimizer is here intelligently accompanied by appropriate preprocessing (i.e.;  search space preparation and initial feasible population generation) and postprocessing (i.e.;  solution refinement) phases aimed at improving the search for near-optimal configurations. The effectiveness of the method is validated through numerical experiments on the IEEE 33-bus;  the IEEE 85-bus systems;  and an artificial 295-bus system under distributed generation and load variation. Finally;  the performance of the proposed HHO-based approach is compared with two related metaheuristic techniques;  namely the particle swarm optimization algorithm and the Cuckoo search algorithm. The results show that HHO outperforms the other two optimizers in terms of minimized power losses;  enhanced voltage profile;  and running time.