Consider a large warehouse in which thegoods are stored and retrieved by autonomous mobile robots. Oneway to deal with possible collisions between the robots is to ignore interactions between the vehicles during the route planningfor each robot and handle the conflicts only during the route execution. However,such an approach is prone to deadlocks, i.e., to situations during which some of the robots mutually block each other, cannot proceed and fail to complete their transportation task. Analternative approach would involve planning collision-free routesfor each robot before the robots start executing them. However,the current methods that guarantee ability to find a solution to anysuch coordination problem are not applicable in practice due totheir high computational complexity. Instead, a simple and computationally efficient approach in which robots plan their routessequentially one after another (classical prioritized planning) isoften used for finding coordinated trajectories even though thealgorithm is known to fail on many dense problem instances. Inthis paper, we show that a simple adaptation of this classical algorithm called revised prioritized planning is guaranteed to findcollision-free trajectories for a well-defined class of practical problems. In particular, if the system resembles human-made transportinfrastructures by requiring that the start and destination positionof each vehicle must never obstruct other vehicles from moving,then the proposed approach is guaranteed to provide a solution.For instance, in our warehouse multirobot system example, the collision-free routes can be efficiently computed by the revised prioritized planning approach. This paper formally characterizes theproblem instances for which the method is guaranteed to succeed.Further, we propose a new asynchronous decentralized adaptation of both classical and revised prioritized algorithm that canbe used in multirobot systems without a central solver. This technique can be used to find coordinated trajectories just by runninga simple asynchronous negotiation protocol between the individualrobots. This paper provides an analysis showing that the asynchronous decentralized implementations of classical and revisedprioritized planning exhibit desirable theoretical properties and anexperimental comparison of performance of different variations ofcentralized and decentralized prioritized planning algorithms.
