Estimating read-rates in RFID has alwaysbeen something of a black art. At one end of the spectrum, in thepure-theory approach, rates are estimated by taking the durationper bit and calculating the total number of bits that can be decodedper second. This approach does not take any of the protocol overheads or real-world conditions into account. In the pure-experimental approach, a standard test case is used to relatively compareread-rates as several factors-tags, readers, firmware, protocols,etc., are varied. Neither of these approaches really provides anyinsight into the problem of estimating read rates for the generalcase.In this paper, we take on this problem by developing a first-principles model of collision probability in the Gen2 medium accesscontrol layer. Collisions of tag responses are a dominant factorin determining read rates in Gen2 systems. Using this model, weshow that the worst case efficiency of the protocol can be no lessthan 36.8%, i.e., it should be possible to see more than 36.8% of agiven population of tags per unit time. We them develop a dynamicQ-algorithm that performs much better than the worst case, andshow its performance relative to a static Q-algorithm.We then relax the assumptions underlying the above algorithmso as to be able to incorporate real-world situations and providea framework wherein practitioners can make some measurementsof a particular situation and use our model to estimate expectedread rates. Three important factors that need to be consideredare: (i) the different decoding times for different types of slot-occupancy; (ii) the capture effect, wherein a two-occupancy slot isdecoded as a valid tag because the backscatter powers are sufficiently different; and (iii) the distribution of backscatter powers.We develop a model to account for these three factors.Although our models make several assumptions, we have designed and deployed readers that justify almost all of them. We arecurrently working on developing a deeper characterization of thebackscatter power distribution of a population of tags. This willallow us to use the signal processing capability of our readers to disambiguate two-occupancy slots and boost read rates well-abovethose predicted by our model. This is the focus of our current research.
