/i>&#x2014;This article aimed to tackle the problem of automated tracking groups of zebrafish larvae;  an ideal vertebrate model organism for large-scale chemical and genetic screens. The task of group tracking is to record each individual&#x2019;s movement and calculate their position;  velocity;  direction;  and other parameters for further analysis;  where the correct identity of each individual must be maintained. Existing algorithms either switch larvae&#x2019; identities easily or are unable to achieve online tracking due to the limitations of their methods to address individuals&#x2019; intersections. DanioSense (DS) adopts a convolutional neural network to identify larval heads whenever they intersect and uses an adaptive Kalman filter to calculate the movement parameters optimally. Besides;  a range of visualization options is designed to bring insight into underlying patterns through massive amounts of data. Theoretically;  this algorithm&#x2019;s approach to solving intersections and calculating movement statistics can also apply to other fish-like animals. Its visualization options are applicable to other tracking systems. The key advantage of Daniosense over existing trackers is the capability to track each larva within a group and output detailed quantitative data in nearly real time. The tracking performance of DS is based on the quality of image segmentation and the success rate of classifying samples. Many state-of-the-art image segmentation and classification neural networks can be adopted to extend this system&#x2019;s applications to more complex environments but at a higher computation and time cost;  which is a tradeoff between efficiency and capability. Some applications require a higher video sampling rate;  so the system&#x2019;s processing speed needs to be further improved with better hardware and software framework optimization. The next steps include improving the processing efficiency;  providing more tracking modules and visualization options;  and extending its application fields. 
