The use of advanced knowledge engineering techniques is becoming popular not only in bioinformatics,but also in engineering. One of the main challenges is thereforeto efficiently extract relevant information from large amounts ofdata from different sources. For example, in product engineering,the focus of project SEVENPRO, efficient reuse of knowledge canbe significantly enhanced by discovering implicit knowledge inpast designs, which are described by product structures, CADdesigns and technical specifications. Fusion of relevant data requires the interplay of diverse specialized algorithms. Therefore,traditional data mining techniques are not straightforwardlyapplicable. Rather, complex knowledge discovery workflows arerequired. Knowledge about the algorithms and principles of theirapplicability cannot be expected from the end user, e.g., a productengineer. A formal capture of this knowledge is thus needed, toserve as a basis for intelligent computational support of workflowcomposition. Therefore we developed a knowledge discovery (KD)ontology describing knowledge types and algorithms required forcomplex knowledge discovery tasks.A planning algorithm was implemented and employed to assemble workflows for the task specified by the user’s input-output task requirements. Two versions of the planning algorithm weredeveloped. The first one uses standard PDDL descriptions of algorithms, accessible to third party planning algorithms. A procedurefor converting algorithm descriptions into PDDL was developed.The second directly queries the ontology using a reasoner. Theproposed approach was tested in two use cases, one from genomicsand another from product engineering. The results show thefeasibility of automated workflow construction achieved by tightintegration of planning and ontological reasoning. The generatedworkflows can be executed on the SEVENPRO platform; however,since they are annotated using the KD ontology, the planner canbe integrated into other workflow execution environments.
