Many manufacturing processes require time-consuming setups before automation can begin. This paper investigates the applications of distributed-parameter computational thermal-fluid models for automating the design of a continuous manufacturing system;  which aims at reducing process setup time. A generic draw process is used as an example throughout this paper;  which involves practically all modes of heat transfer. Two physically accurate distributed-parameter models (semi-two-dimensional (2-D) and quasi-one-dimensional (1-D) are derived and experimentally validated. In deriving these models;  we relax a number of assumptions commonly made in modeling draw processes;  and extend the models to allow for 2-D static/dynamic response predictions. The semi-2-D model provides a means to accurately predict the free surface geometry and the location at which the glass solidifies into a fiber;  which also serves as a basis to derive the quasi-1-D model. The quasi-1-D model that explicitly solves for the controlled variables is attractive for control system design and implementation. These results are particularly important in the optical-fiber industry because the difficulties in making precise in situ measurements in the harsh environment of the draw process have posed a significant challenge in the control of fiber diameter uniformity. Additionally;  these numerically computed and experimentally measured neck-down profiles obtained in an industry setting can be used as benchmark data for future comparisons. The modeling approaches presented here are applicable to a variety of thermal-fluid systems;  such as thermal processing of semiconductor wafer and food. Despite the emphasis in this paper on the faster draw of large-diameter glass that is a participating media in radiation;  the technique for predicting the 2-D temperature distribution and the streamlines describing the fluid flow is equally applicable to processes involving nonparticipating media;  such as composite;  polymer;  or synthetic fibers. 