This paper was motivated by the problemof detecting the complicated sheet-metal processes faults in a highsuccess rate but also applies to the real-world practices. Existingsystems adopt traditional approaches fast but cannot adapt to various cases and achieve a diagnosis purpose. Using hidden Markovmodels and the newly developed support vector techniques, thispaper proposes three approaches and develops intelligent learningalgorithms to model manufacturing operations. The ovel similarity measure criterion is able to implement the signal patternscomparison, overcoming the time-shifting phenomenon. Theapproach of modular architecture and hierarchical architecturehas been presented in the software coding for the recognition ofmultiple faulty conditions. The sensor-based hardware designfacilitates the online condition monitoring system. In this paper,we mathematically characterize the process signal features. Wethen develop the HMM-based modular fault diagnosis systemwhich makes the modification expansion easy in practice. Thehierarchical SVM-based fault diagnosis system uses a small-sizetraining sample but achieves a high successful rate, and overcomes the overfitting and difficulties in structure design of the learning machine. The similarity measure approach using supportvector techniques requires training sample sets produced undernormal operating conditions and, thus, makes it more feasiblethan other techniques. Meanwhile, this approach overcomes thetime-shifting. The proposed system provides important technologies and valuable reference for research areas and an innovationto manufacturing automation. The system works well in mostapplications; however, in some cases, certain parameters haveto be tuned manually, for example, the parts of the signals to bemodeled. The next step is to develop the system so it can learnhuman skills and set parameters automatically. In the short term,it is important to research ways to improve the system¡¯s intelligentonline learning.
