Supply Chain Management (SCM)has received much attention with growing mass customizationand global market demands. The global performance of SCMis achieved through cooperation and interaction among severalorganizations. For the petroleum industry, multiple companieswithin a chemical complex are depending on their suppliers to provide raw materials or intermediates through a pipeline connectedwith multiple companies to provide efficient delivery with lowercosts. In most plants, production instructions are given to eachproduction section in each company. Each company is thoroughlycapable in regard to its own production planning and scheduling.Therefore, each company may have its own desirable supply anddemand plan for each section. The supply and demand plan mustbe coordinated by mutual negotiations across the supply chain.Such coordination has been performed by the communicationsamong human operators. However, in recent years, the decisionmaking for each company is becoming increasingly complex withthe increase of the number of alternative for the plan with anumber of partner companies. Conventional planning systems hasbeen configured to obtain a near-optimal plan using the detailedinformation about multiple companies. However, organizationsgenerally have their own private coordination methods, and that accessing others¡¯ private information or intruding on their decision-making authority should be avoided. In practical situations,a plan must be created without sharing such confidential information as production costs, inventory holding costs, or price ofproducts for competitive companies. In this paper, we propose aframework for distributed supply chain planning system withoutrequiring all of information for multiple companies. Planningcoordination can be efficiently automated by the proposed system.Computational experiments demonstrate that the performanceof the solution is 3% of gap from an optimal solution with areasonable computation time, even though only local informationis used to derive a solution for each company
