Railway networks are at the heart ofpublic transportation systems in many countries. To have safeoperation in the network, any crash between trains coming toa join and also between consecutive trains must be avoided. Aclearly defined schedule alone is not the solution since it maynot be followed for a number of reasons. As such, some controlis mandatory and, thus, an appropriate model of the existingnetwork is required. The novelty of the proposed model is thetransformation or rather reduction of the railway network, which,in fact, is a directed graph to as many parallel lists as the numberof trains. The list of every train comprises its physical parameters,the specifications of its path and schedule, and the informationwhich describes the interaction caused by that train on othertrains. To simulate the network online, the lists of all interactivetrains are swept in parallel in a round-robin fashion, and byresolving all interactions between them their position and velocityare found versus time. The simulation of the rest of the network,i.e., noninteractive trains, is done in the same manner but offline.Examples and simulation results of some small parts of theGerman railway network not only demonstrate the pragmatism ofthe proposed methodology for modeling, analysis, synthesis, andsimulation of time-optimal train traffic in large networks, but alsoillustrate the distinctive merits of the work: a) circumvention orrather reduction of the mathematical complexity of the problem;b) addressing all the features of the existing network; c) genericity, i.e., it can be used to establish an operating system for newnetworks; d) injection of some flexibility and some robustness tothe operation of the system; e) online simulation capability; andf) quantitative analysis and estimate of the simulation time. Theselast two features-rendered by the proposed model-guarantee atime for dispatchers to ponder and carefully consider the situationso as to take the right steps. Thus, g) it would also facilitatereal-time control of the network by dispatchers.
