The main objective of this work is toprovide a suitable framework and methodology that can aid theprocess of collaborative fixture design and analysis. This is drivenby the need for collaborative product development in a distributedenvironment pursuant to outsourcing and increasing competitionfor timely design alternatives and their complete realizationand delivery. Our approach demonstrates seamless informationsharing through the use of SOA. In this paper, the usefulness ofthe developed system is demonstrated using the developed fixturedesign system as a case study. In the first step, we have shownas to how the fixture design system will enable the user to designa fixture for a machining part with the fixture elements from apreloaded fixture element library using rules. We then show howfixture design can be integrated with fixture analysis through theuse of XML schema and a messaging service. For fixture analysis,the user needs to only enter key data like material properties,machining data file name and clamp pressures while the fixtureanalysis procedure is automatically done using Patran. After theanalysis is completed, the user can then download the HTMLreport file that contains some critical information such as stress ofthe workpiece, displacements at contact points between the workpiece and fixture elements, etc. This report helps the designer toevaluate the quality of the fixture designed and to make a furtheraction, e.g., to redesign the fixture or to just reposition a fixtureelement. These enable users to have a quick assessment of their ables manufacturing organizations to seamlessly collaborate witheach other to design and manufacture products with shorter leadtime. This requires the distributed system not only to maintaindata consistency across globally distributed locations seamlessly,but also allows team members to access the services securelyand transparently. In addition, appropriate information modelsneed to be developed to facilitate design data exchange betweendifferent domains. This paper reports on the development of adistributed collaborative system by addressing the above issuesand demonstrating the developed system using fixture design andanalysis as a case study. Web services and service-oriented architecture (SOA) are employed in this system to address the issues ofinteroperability, platform-independence, and language neutrality.Information exchange models based on XML schema have beenused to facilitate data transfer between design and analysis.Notice to Practitioners—The main objective of this work is toprovide a suitable framework and methodology that can aid theprocess of collaborative fixture design and analysis. This is drivenby the need for collaborative product development in a distributedenvironment pursuant to outsourcing and increasing competitionfor timely design alternatives and their complete realizationand delivery. Our approach demonstrates seamless informationsharing through the use of SOA. In this paper, the usefulness ofthe developed system is demonstrated using the developed fixturedesign system as a case study. In the first step, we have shownas to how the fixture design system will enable the user to designa fixture for a machining part with the fixture elements from apreloaded fixture element library using rules. We then show howfixture design can be integrated with fixture analysis through theuse of XML schema and a messaging service. For fixture analysis,the user needs to only enter key data like material properties,machining data file name and clamp pressures while the fixtureanalysis procedure is automatically done using Patran. After theanalysis is completed, the user can then download the HTMLreport file that contains some critical information such as stress ofthe workpiece, displacements at contact points between the workpiece and fixture elements, etc. This report helps the designer toevaluate the quality of the fixture designed and to make a furtheraction, e.g., to redesign the fixture or to just reposition a fixtureelement. These enable users to have a quick assessment of theirManuscript received March 22, 2009; revised July 29, 2009 and September13, 2009; accepted October 19, 2009. Date of publication February 02, 2010;date of current version July 02, 2010. This paper was recommended for publication by Associate Editor J. Xiao and Editor V. Kumar upon evaluation of thereviewers’ comments. This work was supported in part by the National University of Singapore and Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore (IDA).This paper was presented at the IEEE Conference on Automation Science andEngineering (CASE) 2008, Washington, DC.L. Fan, B. N. Jagadish, and A. S. Kumar are with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, National University of Singapore, Singapore, 119077, Singapore (e-mail: mpeask@nus.edu.sg).S. Anbuselvan and S. H. Bok are with the Department of Industrial SystemsEngineering, National University of Singapore, Singapore, 119077, Singapore.Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available onlineat http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TASE.2009.2038069fixture design without much knowledge of FEA. However, thismakes users not fully in control of the process of fixture analysis.In order to allow a user to manage and create his simulationprocess, workflow using templates will be further explored in thefuture work.The current system has been designed to handle prismatic workpieces. In the future, the issue of handling workpieces with morecomplex topologies will be addressed.
