This work is inspired by the problem of planning sequences of operations;  as welding;  in car manufacturing stations where multiple industrial robots cooperate. The goal is to minimize the station cycle time;  i.e.;  the time it takes for the last robot to finish its cycle. This is done by dispatching the tasks among the robots;  and by routing and scheduling the robots in a collision-free way;  such that they perform all predefined tasks. We propose an iterative and decoupled approach in order to cope with the high complexity of the problem. First;  collisions among robots are neglected;  leading to a min-max Multiple Generalized Traveling Salesman Problem (MGTSP). Then;  when the sets of robot loads have been obtained and fixed;  we sequence and schedule their tasks;  with the aim to avoid conflicts. The first problem (min-max MGTSP) is solved by an exact branch and bound (B&B) method;  where different lower bounds are presented by combining the solutions of a min-max set partitioning problem and of a Generalized Traveling Salesman Problem (GTSP). The second problem is approached by assuming that robots move synchronously: a novel transformation of this synchronous problem into a GTSP is presented. Eventually;  in order to provide complete robot solutions;  we include path planning functionalities;  allowing the robots to avoid collisions with the static environment and among themselves. These steps are iterated until a satisfying solution is obtained. Experimental results are shown for both problems and for their combination. We even show the results of the iterative method;  applied to an industrial test case adapted from a stud welding station in a car manufacturing line. This paper is motivated by the problem of planning robot operations in welding applications in the automotive industry. Here;  a number of welding tasks have been introduced along the car body: the goal is to let the robots perform such tasks while minimizing the cycle time (or makespan). The main difficulties;  from the manufacturing engineer perspective;  lie in assigning the tasks to the robots;  deciding the order and the timing of the operations;  avoiding collisions between the robots and the environment;  and among the robots themselves. We present in this work an iterative approach;  consisting of two steps: first;  sequences for the robot operations are computed in order to minimize the cycle time;  while neglecting collisions among robots; then;  given the assignment of tasks to robots;  the operations are reordered and scheduled while avoiding conflicts among robots. Robot motions are also automatically computed to avoid collisions with the static environment. We show an optimal algorithm;  for the first part;  based on implicit enumeration (B&B) and introduce a novel suboptimal algorithm;  for the second part;  to synchronize the robots. These algorithms are iterated while fetching information about the problem that are hard to compute;  thus following a lazy approach. Tests on problems adapted from the literature and from the automotive industry;  show clear improvements over more sequential approaches and good running times. The algorithms are especially suited for cases with up to 40 tasks and 4 robots;  as for typical geometry stations. In future works;  we will further investigate efficient heuristic optimization approaches in order to handle larger problems;  consisting of more than 100 tasks;  as for typical assembly stations. 