Many automation or manufacturing systems are too complex to be modeled by analytical approaches and can only resort to fast-running simulation. Stochastic Nelder-Mead simplex method (SNM) is a newly developed methodology for simulation optimization with expected-value-based objective functions. Quantile;  as an important alternative to the usual expected value;  provides additional information about the distribution of system performance. In particular;  it is useful in describing the tail behavior of the distribution. In this paper;  we exploit the structure of SNM and extend it to solve simulation optimization problems with quantile-based objective functions and inequality constraints. The proposed method;  called SNM-QC;  utilizes the same search strategy as SNM but further incorporates effective quantile estimation techniques and penalty function approaches to solve the problem. We prove that SNM-QC has the desirable global convergence guarantee;  i.e.;  the algorithm is guaranteed to converge to the true optima with probability one. One advantage of SNM-QC is that it is a direct search method that determines the moving direction simply by comparing a set of solutions rather than estimating gradient;  thus it can handle many practical problems where gradient does not exist or is difficult to estimate. An extensive numerical study shows that the performance of SNM-QC is promising compared to the existing heuristics. Two illustrative applications are provided in the end to demonstrate the viability of SNM-QC in practical settings. This paper proposes a direct search method;  called SNM-QC;  for solving quantile-based simulation optimization problems with inequality constraints. Compared to traditional methods that are largely focused on expected-value-based objective functions;  SNM-QC complements the existing literature in simulation optimization. In particular;  by adjusting the value in the quantile-based simulation optimization formulation;  SNM-QC allows for more flexibility when seeking the optimal solution associated with the problem. The advantages of SNM-QC are that it is easy to implement and moreover;  it does not require gradient estimation in the search process. In practice;  SNM-QC can be applied;  for example;  to determine the staffing level in an emergency room of a hospital so as to maximize the service quality of an out-of-hospital system measured by the 90th percentile of the times taken to respond to emergency requests;  subject to budget constraints. 