The voltage control problem in distribution power grids has gained new attention recently for the growthof the distributed generation (DG) penetration. The well-known“fit&forget” policy, considered in the past in typical distributionnetworks where the presence of DG plants was limited and thepower-flow inversion events far to happen, is no more reliablebecause it does not match the increasing need of distributedgenerators. For this reason, on one hand, in order to avoidcritical operations of the network, new and more sophisticatedmethodologies are required. On the other hand, modern DGplants have been providing with inverters capable to be remotelycontrolled. Modern inverters have the potential to inject/absorbreactive power to/from grid to help in shaping the voltage profilesin their distribution feeders. This new scenario paves the way tonovel control strategies applicable to distribution networks, whichwould allow a more effective voltage control in the presence of agreater penetration of DGs. By exploiting these new features, thispaper proposes a novel power distribution management based onthe coordination of the on-load tap changer (OLTC) transformerand the DGs operations that allow DGs to significantly increasetheir economical profitability and feeders to maintain the voltage profiles always under the prescribed limits. Both centralized anddistributed algorithms are presented here. Their actions consist inthe determination and transmission, via communication network,of the optimal set points for the OLTC (main bus voltage) andfor the DGs (active and reactive power) in response to various(adverse) conditions represented, e.g., by critical increments ofthe voltages on the nodes of the network. The proposed approachcan be of interest for the electricity distribution companies,because it is shown by simulations to be more effective than thereactive power management approaches proposed in the currentItalian norms, that are based on precomputed maps, in regulatingthe voltage profiles on the DG connections.
