HEVs, despite their relative high pricedue to the combined power sources, represent a real step towardimproving fuel efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG)emissions and the dependency on depleting fossil fuels. In therealm of transportation, HEV system complexity leads to promising design challenges particularly for reaching higher HEVperformance standards in terms of energy efficiency, fuel saving, fossil fuel dependency, engine downsizing, and GHG emissions.To meet these standards, the battery management system controlwith adequately accurate SoC estimation should be reachedto reduce the urban HEV fuel consumption and the relatedemissions during different daily driving cycles. The major contribution of this paper is to present a novel strategy basedon the hybridization of GPS/rule-based PNs to enhance theHEV fuel consumption and relevant emissions especially fordaily driving trips that present about half of the professionaltravels in 2008 according to the French Sustainable DevelopmentDivision. Using the GPS allows identifying the road, its length,its slope, and the speed limits, which permits estimating themost convenient time to recharge the battery. The numberand the position of stop lines within the trip will help toforecast the optimal location(s) for battery recharging points.The energy management strategy based on the rule-based PNstrategy, which is a relatively simple and versatile algorithmthat can be adapted to different vehicles, is verified for differenttrips and daily driving cycles. The PN strategy is used for theGPS-free case to verify whether the fuel consumption is withinthe permissible rates. The proposed PN strategy is employed tothe GPS-registered trip to attain a desired SoC at the end ofeach trip. Considering different daily driving cycles during a fullweek, the hybrid GPS/rule-based technique provides significantreduction of the HEV’s fuel. Further studies on parallel andserial–parallel vehicle architectures become interesting. The proposed GPS/rule-based model can be improved while accountingfor the transition phases and driver behavior.
