The advancement in sensor technology facilitates vigorous development in multisensor systems, which havebeen widely used to monitor the degradation status of each systemor unit. In order to improve the remaining life prediction, data fusion techniques have been developed based on feature-level anddecision-level fusions. This paper presents a new approach that isbased on the data-level fusion technique to construct a health indexfor degradation modeling and prognostics. The proposed methodology is especially beneficial for the cases where degradation occursin a cumulative manner under a single operation condition, whichresults from a single failure mode. To implement this methodology,it is necessary: 1) to identify the physical system associated withthe degradation process; 2) to collect sample degradation signalsfrom multiple sensors; 3) to screen out useful sensor data by dataprocessing and sensor selection step; and 4) to train the optimalweights on the basis of two essential properties of degradation signals. Once the optimal weights are obtained in the training stage,the health index can be developed for degradation modeling andprognostics in the testing stage. One advantage of this proposedmethodology is that it does not conflict with other feature-level ordecision-level fusion approaches, which can still be implementedto further improve remaining life prediction by treating the composite health index as another sensor data. Experimental studies show that the composite health index has better performance thanany other original sensor information when it is used for model fitting and remaining life prediction. The methodology developed inthis paper can lead to a great impact on data-driven degradationmodeling and prognostics. In future research, we will extend ourwork to the cases that have more than one failure mode and operation condition. In addition, we will investigate the extensions of thisproposed methodology by using kernel methods to map the in-situsensor data into higher dimensional space.
