Web-based appointment systems are emerging in healthcare industry providing patients with convenient and diversiform services;  among which physician recommendation is becoming more and more popular tool to make assignments of physicians to patients. Motivated by a popular physician recommendation application on a web-based appointment system in China;  this paper gives a pioneer work in modeling and solving the physician recommendation problem. The application delivers personalized recommendations of physician assortments to patients with heterogeneous illness conditions;  and then;  patients would select one physician for appointment according to their preferences. Capturing patient preferences is essential for physician recommendation delivery; however;  it is also challenging due to the lack of data on patient preferences. In this paper;  we formulate the physician recommendation problem based on which the preference learning algorithm is proposed that optimizes the recommendations and learns patient preferences at the same time. Since the illness conditions of patients are heterogeneous;  the algorithm aims to make personalized recommendation for each patient. Besides demonstrating the effectiveness of algorithm performance in terms of regret bound;  we also provide extensive numerical experiments to show the expected algorithm performance under heterogeneous reward scenarios and performance comparison with algorithms in the literature under fixed reward scenarios. We introduce the flexibility of adjusting preference estimate update interval into our algorithm and conclude that short update interval contributes to short-term performance while long update interval leads to good results in the long run. Furthermore;  we analyze how preference bound helps the algorithm to make explorations;  which constitute two major contributions of our algorithm. Finally;  we discuss the relevance between patient preferences and physician utilization and present a utilization-balancing approach that is effective in numerical experiments. 