In recent years;  web-based appointment platforms develop rapidly;  and many of them provide physician recommendation services to patients. Considering patients' heterogeneity in both illness and behavior;  it is a great challenge to deliver personalized recommendations. Motivated by this healthcare application;  this study incorporates patient choices and focuses on optimizing real-time personalized recommendation of physician assortment with limited resources;  in order to satisfy patients' varying demands and improve the resource allocation efficiency. This work considers not only the influence of physician assortment to patient choice but also how physicians in the assortment are displayed on the webpage;  i.e.;  the order of physicians. We adopt the location-based two-stage choice model to capture the patient behavior;  in which patients randomly view the top physicians and then choose one among them. The recommendation problem is studied in both static and dynamic environments. In the static environment;  we ignore resource capacities and optimize the recommendation of physician assortment as well as the displayed ranking. We propose a heuristic algorithm SORT for this static version of the problem and prove the lower bound of algorithm performance;  along with the numerical performance validation. In the dynamic environment;  we optimize the physician recommendations for a sequence of randomly arriving patients considering patients' heterogeneity in both matching degrees and choice probabilities. We propose a dynamic algorithm Adjust-exponential inventory balancing (Adjust-EIB) by incorporating our static algorithm SORT in the improved existing algorithm;  which makes recommendation decisions based on the real-time remaining resources. We conduct a series of numerical experiments to compare our algorithm with several benchmarks. The numerical results show that Adjust-EIB outperforms the benchmark algorithms;  especially in congested systems. We also conduct a case study with real-world data and verify the capability of our algorithm in improving real-world system efficiency. 