Polyp recognition in colonoscopy images is crucial for early colorectal cancer detection and treatment. However;  the current manual review requires undivided concentration of the gastroenterologist and is prone to diagnostic errors. In this article;  we present an effective;  two-stage approach called PLPNet;  where the abbreviation “PLP” stands for the word “polyp; ” for automated pixel-accurate polyp recognition in colonoscopy images using very deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Compared to hand-engineered approaches and previous neural network architectures;  our PLPNet model improves recognition accuracy by adding a polyp proposal stage that predicts the location box with polyp presence. Several schemes are proposed to ensure the model's performance. First of all;  we construct a polyp proposal stage as an extension of the faster R-CNN;  which performs as a region-level polyp detector to recognize the lesion area as a whole and constitutes stage I of PLPNet. Second;  stageII of PLPNet is built in a fully convolutional fashion for pixelwise segmentation. We define a feature sharing strategy to transfer the learned semantics of polyp proposals to the segmentation task of stage II;  which is proven to be highly capable of guiding the learning process and improve recognition accuracy. Additionally;  we design skip schemes to enrich the feature scales and thus allow the model to generate detailed segmentation predictions. For accurate recognition;  the advanced residual nets and feature pyramids are adopted to seek deeper and richer semantics at all network levels. Finally;  we construct a two-stage framework for training and run our model convolutionally via a single-stream network at inference time to efficiently output the polyp mask. Experimental results on public data sets of GIANA Challenge demonstrate the accuracy gains of our approach;  which surpasses previous state-of-the-art methods on the polyp segmentation task (74.7 Jaccard Index) and establishes new top results in the polyp localization challenge (81.7 recall). 